ISO/IEC 27001:2022 - Annex A Controls

===== ORGANIZATIONAL CONTROLS =====

A.5.1 Policies for information security
Management direction for information security. Information security policy and topic-specific policies should be defined, approved by management, published, communicated to and acknowledged by relevant personnel and relevant interested parties.

A.5.2 Information security roles and responsibilities
Information security roles and responsibilities should be defined and allocated according to the organization needs.

A.5.3 Segregation of duties
Conflicting duties and conflicting areas of responsibility should be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization's assets.

A.5.7 Threat intelligence
Information relating to information security threats should be collected and analyzed to produce threat intelligence.

A.5.10 Acceptable use of information and other associated assets
Rules for the acceptable use and procedures for handling information and other associated assets should be identified, documented and implemented.

A.5.14 Information transfer
Rules, procedures, or agreements for the secure transfer of information should be in place for all types of transfer facilities within the organization and between the organization and other parties.

===== PEOPLE CONTROLS =====

A.6.1 Screening
Background verification checks on all candidates to become personnel should be carried out prior to joining the organization and on an ongoing basis taking into consideration applicable laws, regulations and ethics and be proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed and the perceived risks.

A.6.2 Terms and conditions of employment
The employment contractual agreements should state the personnel's and the organization's responsibilities for information security.

A.6.3 Information security awareness, education and training
Personnel of the organization and relevant interested parties should receive appropriate information security awareness, education and training and regular updates of the organization's information security policy, topic-specific policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.

A.6.4 Disciplinary process
A disciplinary process should be formalized and communicated to take actions against personnel and other relevant interested parties who have committed an information security policy violation.

A.6.5 Responsibilities after termination or change of employment
Information security responsibilities and duties that remain valid after termination or change of employment should be defined, enforced and communicated to relevant personnel and other interested parties.

===== PHYSICAL CONTROLS =====

A.7.1 Physical security perimeters
Security perimeters should be defined and used to protect areas that contain information and other associated assets.

A.7.2 Physical entry
Secure areas should be protected by appropriate entry controls and access points.

A.7.3 Securing offices, rooms and facilities
Physical security for offices, rooms and facilities should be designed and implemented.

A.7.4 Physical security monitoring
Premises should be continuously monitored for unauthorized physical access.

A.7.7 Clear desk and clear screen
Clear desk rules for papers and removable storage media and clear screen rules for information processing facilities should be defined and appropriately enforced.

A.7.10 Storage media
Storage media should be managed through their life cycle of acquisition, use, transportation and disposal in accordance with the organization's classification scheme and handling requirements.

A.7.14 Secure disposal or re-use of equipment
Items of equipment containing storage media should be verified to ensure that any sensitive data and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal or re-use.

===== TECHNOLOGICAL CONTROLS =====

A.8.1 User endpoint devices
Information stored on, processed by or accessible via user endpoint devices should be protected.

A.8.2 Privileged access rights
The allocation and use of privileged access rights should be restricted and managed.

A.8.3 Information access restriction
Access to information and other associated assets should be restricted in accordance with the established topic-specific policy on access control.

A.8.4 Access to source code
Read and write access to source code, development tools and software libraries should be appropriately managed.

A.8.5 Secure authentication
Secure authentication technologies and procedures should be implemented based on information access restrictions and the topic-specific policy on access control.

A.8.6 Capacity management
The use of resources should be monitored and adjusted in line with current and expected capacity requirements.

A.8.7 Protection against malware
Protection against malware should be implemented and supported by appropriate user awareness.

A.8.8 Management of technical vulnerabilities
Information about technical vulnerabilities of information systems in use should be obtained, the organization's exposure to such vulnerabilities should be evaluated and appropriate measures should be taken.

A.8.9 Configuration management
Configurations, including security configurations, of hardware, software, services and networks should be established, documented, implemented, monitored and reviewed.

A.8.10 Information deletion
Information stored in information systems, devices or in any other storage media should be deleted when no longer required.

A.8.11 Data masking
Data masking should be used in accordance with the organization's topic-specific policy on access control and other related topic-specific policies, and business requirements, taking applicable legislation into consideration.

A.8.12 Data leakage prevention
Data leakage prevention measures should be applied to systems, networks and any other devices that process, store or transmit sensitive information.

A.8.13 Information backup
Backup copies of information, software and systems should be maintained and regularly tested in accordance with the agreed topic-specific policy on backup.

A.8.14 Redundancy of information processing facilities
Information processing facilities should be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability requirements.

A.8.15 Logging
Logs that record activities, exceptions, faults and other relevant events should be produced, stored, protected and analyzed.

A.8.16 Monitoring activities
Networks, systems and applications should be monitored for anomalous behaviour and appropriate actions taken to evaluate potential information security incidents.

A.8.17 Clock synchronization
The clocks of information processing systems used by the organization should be synchronized to approved time sources.

A.8.18 Use of privileged utility programs
The use of utility programs that might be capable of overriding system and application controls should be restricted and tightly controlled.

A.8.19 Installation of software on operational systems
Procedures and measures should be implemented to securely manage software installation on operational systems.

A.8.20 Networks security
Networks and network devices should be secured, managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.

A.8.21 Security of network services
Security mechanisms, service levels and service requirements of network services should be identified, implemented and monitored.

A.8.22 Segregation of networks
Groups of information services, users and information systems should be segregated in the organization's networks.

A.8.23 Web filtering
Access to external websites should be managed to reduce exposure to malicious content.

A.8.24 Use of cryptography
Rules for the effective use of cryptography, including cryptographic key management, should be defined and implemented.

A.8.25 Secure development life cycle
Rules for the secure development of software and systems should be established and applied.

A.8.26 Application security requirements
Information security requirements should be identified, specified and approved when developing or acquiring applications.

A.8.27 Secure system architecture and engineering principles
Principles for engineering secure systems should be established, documented, maintained and applied to any information system development activities.

A.8.28 Secure coding
Secure coding principles should be applied to software development.

A.8.29 Security testing in development and acceptance
Security testing processes should be defined and implemented in the development life cycle.

A.8.30 Outsourced development
The organization should direct, monitor and review the activities related to outsourced system development.

A.8.31 Separation of development, test and production environments
Development, testing and production environments should be separated and secured.

A.8.32 Change management
Changes to information processing facilities and information systems should be subject to change management procedures.

A.8.33 Test information
Test information should be appropriately selected, protected and managed.

A.8.34 Protection of information systems during audit testing
Audit tests and other assurance activities involving assessment of operational systems should be planned and agreed between the tester and appropriate management.

===== INCIDENT MANAGEMENT =====

A.5.24 Information security incident management planning and preparation
The organization should plan and prepare for managing information security incidents by defining, establishing and communicating information security incident management processes, roles and responsibilities.

A.5.25 Assessment and decision on information security events
The organization should assess information security events and decide if they are to be categorized as information security incidents.

A.5.26 Response to information security incidents
Information security incidents should be responded to in accordance with the documented procedures.

A.5.27 Learning from information security incidents
Knowledge gained from information security incidents should be used to strengthen and improve the information security controls.

A.5.28 Collection of evidence
The organization should establish and implement procedures for the identification, collection, acquisition and preservation of evidence related to information security events.

===== BUSINESS CONTINUITY =====

A.5.29 Information security during disruption
The organization should plan how to maintain information security at an appropriate level during disruption.

A.5.30 ICT readiness for business continuity
ICT readiness should be planned, implemented, maintained and tested based on business continuity objectives and ICT continuity requirements.

===== COMPLIANCE =====

A.5.31 Legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements
Legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements relevant to information security and the organization's approach to meet these requirements should be identified, documented and kept up to date.

A.5.32 Intellectual property rights
The organization should implement appropriate procedures to protect intellectual property rights.

A.5.33 Protection of records
Records should be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release.

A.5.34 Privacy and protection of personal identifiable information
The organization should identify and meet the requirements regarding the preservation of privacy and protection of PII according to applicable laws and regulations and contractual requirements.

A.5.35 Independent review of information security
The organization's approach to managing information security and its implementation including people, processes and technologies should be reviewed independently at planned intervals, or when significant changes occur.

A.5.36 Compliance with policies, rules and standards for information security
Compliance with the organization's information security policy, topic-specific policies, rules and standards should be regularly reviewed.

A.5.37 Documented operating procedures
Operating procedures for information processing facilities should be documented and made available to personnel who need them.
